# Reflections, February - June 2025

## The arc of the past half year

In February 2025, I left McKinsey. More specifically, I declared "search" - McKinsey's exit process that provides a few months of paid time meant for exploring next steps. The almost four years I spent at McKinsey was more time than I had originally anticipated spending in consulting. I had stayed for a number of reasons - a wonderful set of colleagues in the healthcare practice, a number of unexpected advancement opportunities, uncertainty about whether I wanted to found or join. But I had always wanted to enter the startup ecosystem, and by the new year, I felt like it was finally time to take the leap and force myself to figure it out.

Writing this in June, the process ended up being much more circuitous than I had originally expected. Here is a rough summary of the arc of the past half-year:

-   **January to March (~3 months):** I spent time interviewing at companies. I spoke with ~20 companies in this window, mostly in healthcare. I also did some 'work trial' style projects at a virtual autism diagnosis clinic and an international hospital network startup.
-   **March to June (~3 months):** As a result of a confluence of factors - being not-that-excited about the roles that I was looking at, getting increasingly energized by some ideas I had - I decided to start my own venture. Hence, I kicked off a process of customer discovery, talking to healthcare stakeholders ranging from HR leaders making decisions about employee health benefits to frontline nurses treating patients to F500 healthcare executives. I had around 80 conversations in total.
-   **June (<1 month):** Eventually, I realized that this sort of unstructured, networking-based work - making connections, building customer relationships, building out a team, and constantly selling - was not what I wanted to be doing at the moment as I planned a big life shift. I also had a revelation that the thing that was deeply exciting to me was not healthcare but the AI explosion. I went back to interviewing, and I ended up joining a logistics AI company.

## Figuring out what I'm solving for

One of the most important discoveries in this journey was figuring out what really excites me. For the past two years I made the intentional decision to focus on healthcare work at McKinsey due to a belief that new companies will be needed to solve the myriad problems facing the sector. Given my domain knowledge, I began to search for roles at healthcare startups. They ran the gamut - from AI-powered RCM vendors to home health providers to cost containment solutions.

Eventually I realized I was not very inspired by the companies I was interacting with. There were a variety of reasons that often came up - being remote-first, lack of team fit, comp issues, under-scoped roles. Eventually I concluded that the best way to get a role that didn't feel like I was selling myself short was to start my own thing. And that's what led me to start the process of evaluating startup ideas to pursue, sometimes referred to as the "-1 to 0" stage of a startup (a precursor to the "0 to 1" phase of getting initial traction).

During this exploration journey, I evaluated a number of problems I could potentially solve, including:

-   Employers struggling with rising health plan costs
-   Men globally underutilizing psychotherapy
-   Patients not adhering to medication regimens

As I thought about the best way to tackle these problems, often the solution was a business model innovation rather than a technological innovation - e.g., creating a new standard of care for men's behavioral health, providing analytical tools to benefits brokers to conduct savings assessments. In those cases, there was certainly potential to build interesting businesses. However, I just didn't feel excited by them. But when a problem was AI-solvable - as an example, calling patients to identify cases of medication non-adherence - I felt a surge of energy. I really believe in the importance of participating in tailwinds - especially when tailwinds are massive platform shifts. The AI platform shift is a larger and more rapid platform shift than ever before in history. And as the tens of trillions of dollars spent globally on labor go up for grabs to AI software vendors, beneficiaries of the platform shift will gain tremendous value - either through direct wealth generation or career acceleration.

As I realized this, I began to focus only on AI applications for healthcare, such as AI-powered patient engagement. However, I also began to feel some trepidation. I was not close to the silicon valley ecosystem and had never worked on launching a software product. More than anything else, I was also hoping to pack up my bags from New York and move to San Francisco - a big life shift. If I wanted to set up a healthy life in SF, I would want to spend time socializing and getting in the rhythm of a new city. I am someone with a finite amount of social bandwidth, and so this socialization is hard to do when a lot of mental bandwidth is consumed by the networking-based work that being a founder entails, such as relationship building with potential customers, investors, and team members (not to mention the bandwidth consumed by a gnawing sense of urgency to make progress).

Hence, I ended up cutting my startup exploration short. I started recruiting again, looking for fast-growing companies where I could have a wide scope and basically speedrun learning founder skillsets of building and selling. The emerging 'deployment strategist' archetype was fascinating to me - these roles essentially blend solutions engineering, implementation, change management, product design, and cross-sales into a single position. I had also reconceptualized myself as a result of my earlier revelations on AI - while I certainly continued to be excited by healthcare, I was more excited by applied AI more generally, and the new set of companies I began talking to reflected that. And due to the risk-averse nature of stakeholders and the slowness of tech deployment in healthcare, it turns out that the most exciting, fast-moving companies were often outside of healthcare.

I eventually found a company with an ambitious, impressive team that I clicked with, and signed on as their first deployment strategist. Incidentally, they operate in the freight shipping vertical - an area I would not have even considered 6 months ago. In many ways it is the perfect vertical to quickly learn - there are many distinct workflows within a given customer that can arguably all be automated, creating latitude to hone my product-building and sales skills. I'm excited for this next step and to see where this goes.

## Flow

A major learning from my exploratory period is that starting a company is a matching game - you need to find a customer for your product, people able to build the product, and investors willing to fund those people's salaries. If you can get those things together, then you are golden. Hence, founding is essentially a game of selling, recruiting, and fundraising. There are always some ad hoc tasks outside of these - as an example, I spent meaningful time figuring out how to set up a legal entity to serve patients - and some founders may spend a substantial amount of time on these other activities. But the beating heart of the founder-CEO role is sales, fundraising, and recruiting.

The interesting thing about each of these three tasks is that you can model them as funnels. In a sales funnel, you start with unqualified leads that you reach out to. Some may be interested and respond, and then after several more conversations, you might get someone to sign on to be a customer. You can imagine similar funnels existing with for fundraising - you reach out to 100 investors, and eventually maybe 5 end up writing a check - and also with team-building.

Hence, ultimately the physics of being a founder-CEO is about optimizing (volume) x (conversion rate). Being successful involves creating a large set of initial leads and then progressing those leads through the various stages of the funnel - creating "flow" (sales flow, recruiting flow, funding flow).

A consequence of thinking of the world in this way is that anything can be accomplished with enough flow. This means being aggressive on generating volume (going to conferences, leveraging networks) and cultivating a high hit rate (becoming more knowledgeable / persuasive / connected / charismatic). This isn't to say that generating flow is easy-- it can be exhausting to try to generate a high volume of leads, and winning people over is a tough art. But I think having this mental model of company-building helped me focus and figure out what I needed to be doing at a given moment (the unchanging answer: generating flow).

## What I'm most looking forward to learning

As I look forward, the biggest thing I'm hoping to develop in my next role - even more so than the tactical minutiae of how to build and sell - is personal presence.

At one point in my journey, I was casually chatting with a couple of VCs, one of whom I had briefly interned for before starting at McKinsey, named MW. After I explained my concept, the other VC remarked that while the idea might have been good, I didn't exude the maniacal energy for it that the best founders have. Debriefing afterwards, MW suggested that I think about the personal brand I want to build. A voice that feels authentic will resonate more, leading to a higher "hit rate" in the framework above. Some founders are hyper-expressive and exude that maniac energy the other VC was expecting, which works to demonstrate passion and infect others with enthusiasm. But on the other hand, MW also knew one CEO who talked in a whisper, emanating a feeling that he is letting the listener in on a secret.

In consulting I was incentivized to adopt a tone of polished neutrality, while avoiding making grand remarks or take strong positions. Our role in many ways is to support the mission of the most senior clients, and taking a stand can be contradictory. It was also important to be seen as likeable and professional by all stakeholders in an organization- including many who don't want you to be involved. Communications need to be concise, professional, and efficient due to the way information needs to rapidly flow to incredibly busy partners or senior client executives.

Contrast collaborating with some folks at a client where your strategy project doesn't really touch their day-to-day, or where you may even be perceived as a threat with collaborating with a customer that you have sold a service that solves a problem for them. In the second scenario, they already like you- you can afford to be more relaxed. Contrast giving a presentation to management where your client has a clear vision that you want to reinforce with giving a presentation to a VC where you need to outline your vision. In the second scenario you need to be the one defining what the future looks like.

On a separate but related note, an interesting observation I gleaned was from a former sales & operations leader at Scale AI. His observation was that the best sales people aren't necessarily what you think of as "sales-y" but rather good problem solvers. While bubbliness and warmth help around the edges, what really moves the needle on a customer relationship is helping them solve problems. (He also observed that good sales people often have some kind of technical or consulting training.)

I think the important thing is that a founder's brand is something that needs to be intentionally cultivated and thought about. This is something I'm very excited to work on.